GH-2496: Reuse retry topic for maxInterval delay (#2497)
spring-projects/spring-kafka: spring-kafka-docs/src/main/asciidoc/retrytopic.adoc

IMPORTANT: The non-blocking exception classification behavior also depends on the specific topic's configuration.

> ==== Topic Amount and Naming

Reviewer: I don't think we need to change the section title.

IMPORTANT: The non-blocking exception classification behavior also depends on the specific topic's configuration.

> ==== Topic Amount

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Topic Naming
```

"my-other-topic" -> "my-topic-myRetrySuffix-1000", "my-topic-myRetrySuffix-2000", ..., "my-topic-myDltSuffix".

> NOTE: The default behavior is creating separate retry topics for each attempt, appended with their index value: retry-0, retry-1, ..., retry-n. Therefore, by default the amount of retry topics is the configured `maxAttempts` minus 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The default behavior is to create separate retry topics for each attempt, appended with an index value: retry-0, retry-1, ..., retry-n. 
Therefore, by default the number of retry topics is the configured `maxAttempts` minus 1.
```

"my-other-topic" -> "my-topic-myRetrySuffix-1000", "my-topic-myRetrySuffix-2000", ..., "my-topic-myDltSuffix".

NOTE: The default behavior is to create separate retry topics for each attempt, appended with an index value: retry-0, retry-1, ..., retry-n.

> Therefore, by default the amount of retry topics is the configured `maxAttempts` minus 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, by default the number of retry topics is the configured `maxAttempts` minus 1.
```

[[single-topic-fixed-delay]]
===== Single Topic for Fixed Delay Retries

If you're using fixed delay policies such as `FixedBackOffPolicy` or `NoBackOffPolicy` you can use a single topic to accomplish the non-blocking retries.
This topic will be suffixed with the provided or default suffix, and will not have either the index or the delay values appended.

====
[source, java]
----
@RetryableTopic(backoff = @Backoff(2000), fixedDelayTopicStrategy = FixedDelayStrategy.SINGLE_TOPIC)
@KafkaListener(topics = "my-annotated-topic")
public void processMessage(MyPojo message) {
        // ... message processing
}
----
====

====
[source, java]
----
@Bean
public RetryTopicConfiguration myRetryTopic(KafkaTemplate<String, MyPojo> template) {
    return RetryTopicConfigurationBuilder
            .newInstance()
            .fixedBackoff(3000)
            .maxAttempts(5)
            .useSingleTopicForFixedDelays()
            .build();
}
----
====

NOTE: The default behavior is creating separate retry topics for each attempt, appended with their index value: retry-0, retry-1, ...

[[single-topic-maxinterval-delay]]
===== Single Topic for maxInterval Exponential Delay 

> 

Reviewer 2: I think you know this, but there's a [one sentence per line](https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-recommended-practices/#one-sentence-per-line) rule for docs, this line has 2.

Author: > I think you know this, but there's a [one sentence per line](https://asciidoctor.org/docs/asciidoc-recommended-practices/#one-sentence-per-line) rule for docs, this line has 2.

I did not know that (first time with asciidoc). Maybe due to the file having been changed since then, the highlighted section does not show a multi-sentence line, but I will search here.

Reviewer 2: > I did not know that (first time with asciidoc).

I thought you did because everything else was ok :)

>Maybe due to the file having been changed since then, the highlighted section does not show a multi-sentence line, but I will search here.

I probably highlighted the wrong line, sorry. It's the line right next to that one ("If you're using exponential backoff policy")

Reviewer: We use one sentence per line to isolate future changes to a single sentence.

}
----
====

====
[source, java]
----
@Bean
public RetryTopicConfiguration myRetryTopic(KafkaTemplate<String, MyPojo> template) {
    return RetryTopicConfigurationBuilder
            .newInstance()
            .fixedBackoff(3000)
            .maxAttempts(5)
            .useSingleTopicForFixedDelays()
            .create(template);
}
----
====

NOTE: The default behavior is creating separate retry topics for each attempt, appended with their index value: retry-0, retry-1, ...

[[single-topic-maxinterval-delay]]
===== Single Topic for maxInterval Exponential Delay 

If you're using exponential backoff policy (`ExponentialBackOffPolicy`), you can use a single retry topic to accomplish the non-blocking retries of the attempts whose delays are the configured `maxInterval`.

This "final" retry topic will be suffixed with the provided or default suffix, and will have either the index or the `maxInterval` value appended.

NOTE: By opting to use a single topic for the retries with the `maxInterval` delay, it may become more viable to configure an exponential retry policy that keeps retrying for a long time, because in this approach you do not need a large amount of topics.

> The default behavior is to work with an amount of retry topics equal to the configured `maxAttempts` minus 1, and when using exponential backoff, the retry topics are suffixed with the delay values, with the last retry topics (corresponding to the `maxInterval` delay) being suffixed with an additional index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default behavior is to work with the number of retry topics equal to the configured `maxAttempts` minus 1 and, when using exponential backoff, the retry topics are suffixed with the delay values, with the last retry topic (corresponding to the `maxInterval` delay) being suffixed with an additional index.
```

For instance, when configuring the exponential backoff with `initialInterval=1000`, `multiplier=2`, and `maxInterval=16000`, in order to keep trying for one hour, one would need to configure `maxAttempts` as 229, and by default the needed retry topics would be:

* -retry-1000
* -retry-2000
* -retry-4000
* -retry-8000
* -retry-16000-0
* -retry-16000-1
* -retry-16000-2
* ...
* -retry-16000-224

When using the strategy that reuses the retry topic for the same intervals, in the same configuration above the needed retry topics would be:

* -retry-1000
* -retry-2000
* -retry-4000
* -retry-8000
* -retry-16000

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This will be the default in a future release.
```
